---
title: Accessibility 101 - 01
date: 2023-12-07 02:15:33
tags: pending
description: A collection of some tips about Web Accessibility.
---

In my previous post, I mentioned that I'll improve my skills related to Web Development and I decided to start with Accessibility (aka A11y).
I started watching the series about [freeCodeCamp - Accessibility Quiz][yt-series] which follows 50 steps to learn more about A11y. I plan
to watch the video, take some notes, write down some thoughts, and apply some concepts in my blog post.

# Steps 1-10

Fortunately, we already have most of the following suggestion in the blog:

* `lang` attribute for `html` tag

```html
<html lang='en'></html>
```

* `meta` tag and define `charset` attribute

```html
<meta charset='UTF-8' />
```

* `meta` tag and define `viewport` with the `content` attribute

```html
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale" />
```

* `meta` tag and define `description` attribute

```html
<meta name="description" content="A blog page for people who is interested in programming.">
```

* `title` tag to understand the content of a page

```html
<title>CAMM Blog</title>
```

* Use semantic HTML elements (e.g. `header`, `nav`, `main`, etc.)

Those tips are useful but in the video we never got to the point of actually using a screen reader that will use the metadata provided.
After all, we included all of these tags, attributes, and values so that they could help end users to navigate easily through the site.
Are we really going getting that goal?

I tried the [orca][orca] screen reader and it did used the title to mention the tab that I selected but it didn't use the other meta tags.
Nevertheless, the other tags are useful for search engines to present content to reader and then screen readers can be used to tell the
user what the website is about.

[yt-series]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gtc-VMge8ws&list=PL-oQHiI7AbyTKjktowWsj1qy-OH2MoTMX
[orca]: https://wiki.gnome.org/Projects/Orca
